# Context Free

##  Who is this programming language for?

Context Free is essentially a computer programming language with potential utilisation in graphic design owing to its ability to produce intricate images in terms of variations of simple shapes: squares, triangles, and circles. A few lines of code of skewing, rotating, transforming and flipping these basic shapes as well as using complex programming concepts such as loops and recursion enables highly-detailed, organised, and specific designs to be created. In my view,  this language is used to serve those users who wish to create intricate and detailed patterns such as fractals, since these are easier to generate with a greater level of accuracy through programming statements rather than manually using Photoshop or another photo editor.

## What is easy to do in this language? Why is it easy?

Context Free is a Domain-Specific Language whose limited-expressiveness in terms of its methods and parameters makes it ideal for generating and creating complex patterns and images. It contains parameters such as chirality, transformation, rotation, flipping which create domain focus on image creation since these concepts are all easily-applicable and mostly-specific to images. At the same time, these are concepts comprehensible by most regardless of their experience in graphic design thus increasing the usability of the language to the general public and anybody willing and able to learn it. Its limited-expressiveness in terms of the fact that it defines images only through certain primitive shapes and a few shape and colour readjustment methods means that it can easily be learnt and used by beginners. Generating detailed and patterned images such as fractals is also much easier and more convenient to do using this language as compared to using a typical photo editor.

## What is hard to do in this language? Why is it hard?

One difficulty in using ContextFree is that its limitation to only using squares, triangles, and circles means that images such as sketches of people, animals, etc. - anything requiring the usage of irregular shapes - are near impossible to produce with accuracy: its usage remains limited to geometric shapes and patterns. In addition to this, when using ContextFree for image creation instead of a photo-editor or a pen and paper, one cannot see the results of their actions and methods (e.g. skewing, flipping, rotating, etc.) in real time and must wait until they have "rendered" the program to do so. Since the designs being created are often complex, this makes it difficult, especially for beginners, to be able to predict the output of a particular program. Were the image able to reflect the changes in the program in real-time, usage of ContextFree may have been much more convenient. Another thing I found difficult to do in this language was debugging. While the program is able to point out the line where the error lies, there are no specifics provided as to the nature of the error thus making it difficult, especially for beginners, to fix their programs.

## How did you learn how to program in this language?

In order to learn how to program in ContextFree, I used the GitHub documentation. Each part of the syntax - from startshape to defining rules to shape adjustments to loops and conditionals - were well-defined over there along with some formidable examples. Once I started working on my project, experimenting with the code and changing certain values to compare their expected with their actual effect on the image also helped me learn better about the parameters themselves.

## Describe what happens when a ContextFree program runs
_Specifically, how does the computer interpret the rules in a program, in
order to turn those rules into a picture?_

According to my understanding, each rule in ContextFree behaves like a function in a general-purpose language. Each program works in a top-down approach. The rule called upon by the startshape begins to work first, if it is defined in terms of another rule, it then calls upon that rule, and then so on nd so forth until we have reached the fundamental function defined only in terms of the "primitive shapes", their parameters, and possibly itself. This shape is first created and then the program then goes back up in a bottom-up approach, adding to the image and executing each rule in terms of which the upper rule in the hierarchy is defined until it reaches the final one. This mechanism proceeds rather fast, therefore resulting in the image being produced in an animated manner each time the program is "rendered."

## What do you think is interesting about the ContextFree program you wrote?

I believe the ContextFree program that I wrote was fascinating because it only has 3 rules, 2 of which function recursively and each one works in terms of either itself or another. In spite of being only a few short lines of code thus defined in terms of nothing more than black and white primitive shapes, it is able to generate an exceedingly intricate fractal with several branches with possibly several thousands of shapes created in perfect symmetry by using recursion and a loop simultaneously. I also believed it to be interesting since to me, this - using this DSL to generate patterns next to impossible to design by hand or a photo-editor - is its purpose and thus in creating a complex image, I was able to use this DSL the way I believed it to be intended, therefore making it in my opinion an incredible learning experience for my first ever usage of a DSL.
